IMPORTANT: Use existing materials and documents generated during the course of your development work to extract the pertinent information to complete these questions.


242 – What technological obstacles did you have to overcome? 350 words max – 50 lines of 78 characters



Impetus provides virtual collaboration contexts,
tools,
and management.
The tool set is Drupal&trade; 7 with custom modules.
We built an asynchronous automatic portal generator upon the Drupal Content Management System (CMS),
and this forms a foundation for our collaboration context
&mdash;
Impetus InSite Platform&trade;.
The InSite Event Platform&trade;,
our major development work for 2020,
presented the uncertainties which necessitated research and experimental development to move our business model into synchronous services,
true virtual collaboration defined by client need,
flexible and autonomous enough to allow clients to select the services they want for the collaboration.




ASYNCHRONOUS TO SYNCHRONOUS

InSite Event Platform borrowed from our asynchronous portal and incorporated it into its synchronous functioning,
like internal product launches,
internal company wide meetings with different departments and closed sessions within the overall virtual meeting context provided by InSite.





ZOOM INTEGRATION


This required Zoom&trade; integration.
There were no Drupal modules to bring API capability for Zoom.
The idea was definitely in the community.
There were open source projects in development,
but nothing even beta,
only alpha,
and therefore unsuitable for production use.
We had to develop our own.
This necessitated a robust registration process with tiered access,
delimiting between temporary users,
users,
managers,
administrators,
and advisers,
so that these and other roles could be properly assigned to a Zoom meeting.
We coded an obfuscation of the identity so that it could participate in Zoom but not register a user or password with Zoom.
This means we fully ported Zoom to our virtual context.
Their technology fully integrated into our InSite virtual collaboration context.

.. Was this API assessed? https://www.drupal.org/project/zoomapi Does the Impetus created API distribute collateral aggregated by Zoom? Chat notes? Recordings? Webhooks?

.. Is the Zoom API developed in-house being retained for competitive advantage or will it be offered to Drupal as a contribution to that open source project?

.. Has Trevor documented the leveraged libraries?


We implemented comprehensive workflow and essential data store for all our sales and client data,
We integrated with our Google Workspace&trade;,
and essentially created an ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system customized to what we do
&mdash;
virtual collaboration.
Our sales and client teams can access the data from the right side panel.
We created our workflow with AppSheet&trade;.

The impetus for this experimentation was the cost prohibitive options for cloud based ERPs on the market.
SalesForce&trade; or NetSuite&trade; are not feasible.

We knew that we would have to do scripting to glue the system together.
We had to do extensive work on the data modeling,
storing different types of data,
then setting up access points in the system to that data for different stakeholders.



PRIOR AND POST SESSION EVENT ACTIVITIES


We programmed events prior to,
in session,
and post session,
to provide a schedule to a virtual gathering.


PORTAL BUILDER AUTOMATION

Two major features were added this year.
Automatic progress tracking for all types of asynchronous activities within the portal,
and the corollary UX front end design so advisers know where they are within a checkpoint.
This can be auto-deployed with the portal builder automation.
Previously,
we only had progress tracking on the client reporting side,
but not for the end user themselves.
There were no existing options in the Drupal open source community that met all of our needs.
We had to build our own around touchpoints.
We built the automation of form creation at the administrator level
&mdash;
the InSite Surveyor
&mdash;
so the virtual collaboration can take registered input.
We built upon the Drupal form module,
but the auto-creation was built interdependently atop that.


SAILS AND ANCHOR TOOL

This is a gamified canvas that allows users to drag and drop icons to populate scenarios.
We extended our custom Drupal module to allow for the upload of custom icons and graphics.



There currently isn't any tool available in the market which builds on all of the core elements of our existing portal building and document annotation platform. Nothing else is capable of integrating our touchpoint builder, activity tracker, and report system  in a unified interface.

We hypothesized we could develop an administrator interface that will allow simple addition of a list of users. The typical approach that Drupal users take to this problem is to import user information from csv files, using Drupal user_import or user_registration modules. We found these Drupal modules did not natively allow our objectives to be achieved within 1s. 

We feel that creating and managing emails using these existing tools and modules did not meet performance objectives to render the appropriate content to the screen in 1s. We were uncertain if we could develop a set of custom interfaces that will allow spin up of new and scheduled email templates, while not impacting performance of our existing architecture.

 

Improved Reporting Automation 

There are no Drupal modules that can extract webform information and

display it according to our standards and requirements. We were uncertain how to scale development upon the Drupal Webform and Highcharts libraries, and at the same time achieve integration with Impetus Digital's own custom content creation and activity tracking components without negatively impacting performance or architecture.

 

Digital "Sails and Anchors" Gamification Tool

The Sails & Anchors concept is something that is unique to Impetus. It was uncertain how to integrate a gamification concept, and implement the touch gesture capabilities, on a mobile device, to yield better engagement and  cognition as participants are able to easily document their thoughts and compare/contrast with others’ thoughts using a touch gesture on a mobile device. 

 

Speech-to-text for Drupal Comment Threads

There are no tools currently available (like Dragon Medical, or nVoq), that would allow us to directly integrate Google Speech to Text in our discussion forums. We found these solutions did not work on all of our supported browsers. Especially did not support safari, and layer-over webpages, and we could not control interface. 

 

Buying Path Custom Webform Implementation

We needed to be able to make sure that the values in multiple webform fields add up to values entered in other fields within the same form. There are no Drupal modules that are able to do this. The webform validation module is the most advanced module including documentation to show how to validate a webform to date, but it was inadequate for our needs. 

 


244 – What work did you perform in the tax year to overcome those technological obstacles?   700 words max - 100 lines of 78 characters





We attempted to develop a custom interface that allows multiple users to be added quickly and efficiently. Our interface is unique not only in its ability to add users to a site but to ensure that they are added to the correct project group.  We started using the functional-php library https://github.com/lstrojny/functional-php during this project. We initially thought this library would allow us to take greater advantage of PHP's functional capabilities. But the library was missing several functions that would help us to achieve our objectives. 've found very useful. We hypothesized we could develop new approaches to allow multiple conditional functions to be combined to apply generic logic based on data manipulation requirements. Further, other functions allow functional methodology to be more easily applied to arrays and objects in our architecture. We next attempted to develop a method to allow creation of discussion forums. Discussion forum pages can be created by combining the correct group of panes using a combination of modules, such as “panoply” and “panels”. We developed a process to design and develop a method to combine panes in the correct way. Further, since native Drupal methods were too time consuming for creating discussion forums en-masse, we extended and created new libraries that would allow creation of several discussion forums at once. Lastly, we also need to allow function to create and schedule emails. We also need to ensure that these emails were restricted to targets who have not completed all of the discussion forums. We extended the pet module, a custom scheduling module, and a custom progress tracking module to accomplish this, and then our scheduling and progress tracking modules were created by our developers.




 

 

Improved Reporting Automation 

We extended highcharts library to create webform data graphs. We were able to allow setup our rating and ranking webform components as individual modules. Our webform analysis module could be integrated to create select option, custom rating, and ranking component graphs.

 

 

Digital Sails and Anchors Gamification Tool

This began as an extension of existing drag-and-drop and mobile touch gesture libraries, used in a unique way no other library or system has done to our knowledge. We began building upon the Touch Punch and ctools libraries, as well as Impetus Digital's own Value Creator Tree Creator module. Further, we developed a method to integrate with the custom content creation and activity tracking components in our platform. We extended the touch punch (furf) library to help this game work correctly on mobile platforms (specifically iPhone first.)

 

Speech-to-text for Drupal Comment Threads

We began experimentation with the Google Speech to Text service and its associated API https://packagist.org/packages/google/cloud-speech) to translate audio to text. We then developed a separate module for our Speech to Text commands. We spent time making it configurable so that other organizations could use it. We were able to achieve 60-70 percent accuracy, which we found was less than dragon medical, an industry standard library. However, we believe it is possible to build a Medical term library to improve accuracy, and in this early stage prototype we will continue work in the next fiscal period to determine if we increase accuracy to achieve best objectives. 

 

Buying Path Custom Webform Implementation

We customized extended both the front-end display and back-end validation process of our existing implementation of the Drupal Webforms module. The front-end customizations allowed users to fill out a diagram in bite-sized steps, in a tree diagram layout; this layout isn’t possible in the standard module and we couldn’t find any plugins to address the need. We created a custom webform validator by expanding on the functionality found in the webform validation module. We added custom field sum validation by making use of a hook in this module.







246 – What technological advancements were you trying to achieve? 	350 words max - 50 lines of 78 characters




The technological objective of the project was the development of a set of an integrated document annotation, message handling, and planning visualization tools for mobile and desktop environments.  We were trying to advance our platform, the Impetus InSite Platform, which automates pharmaceutical advisory board review processes, through synchronous and asynchronous document annotation, virtual discussions and debates, and medical product review processes. 

The work done resulted in the following platform and knowledge advancements:

 

Portal Builder Automation:

We developed library and module extensions to an administrator interface which can manipulate user lists, create and schedule emails, spin up multiple discussion forums, and combine correct groups of panes. These developments could potentially be submitted to the library's author for inclusion into the project. Further, we are reselling this solution to third parties on a subscription basis, as this advancement allows users to easily create advisory boards within our platform.

 

Improved Reporting Automation: 

We extended libraries to automate creation of a default set of graphs, tables, and statistical calculations for all question types. This development was a novel endeavour as it unifies a number of disparate components that no other library or system has done to our knowledge.

 

Digital Sails and Anchors Gamification Tool:

The Sails & Anchors and Value Tree tools have been integrated within the same module, and this module gamification, and associated mobile device touch gesture input mechanism, could potentially be used by other organizations. 

 

Speech-to-text for Drupal Comment Threads:

Extended Google Speech to Text service which was configurable and focused on medical terminologies.

 

Buying Path Custom Webform Implementation:

We advanced Drupal form validation, as our advancement could potentially be integrated into the webform_validation module if we submitted a pull request to Drupal module's author. It could also be set up and used as a standalone module.
