1.  Robo Rep T661
    =============

    1.  ### What scientific or technological uncertainties did you attempt to overcome? (Maximum 350 words)

This technology evolved out of the work of a medical device
representative who found himself wasting copious numbers of hours
traveling to hospitals to be present at operations to instruct medical
practitioners on medical device usage. At the start of this project, he
began to investigate the technology of telepresence, but it was nowhere
near where it needed to be to substitute for him in an operating room,
there were no known or novel technological approaches to telepresence
for surgery rooms. That began the experimental process to come up with a
robotic representative that could stand in for a medical device
representative in an operating theater, allowing the medical device
representative to have eyes and the ears in the operating room, and the
ability to point, instruct, and communicate through the robotic device,
such that they could interact with multiple physical locations, in near
real time, all at once.

The technical uncertainty involved merging laser technology with visual
recognition technology, a term called telepresence, and development of
an iMac-based control panel, through which a very complicated system of
devices, all mounted on a portable, easily assembled and disassembled
system, can be operated remotely. There were a number of moving parts
that had to be negotiated over a network: cameras, lasers, robotic
motion, computer code to govern action/reaction, data layer based on
visual recognition, associated data layer with device instructions.
These provided a number of test scenarios we needed to run through,
documenting many failures to overcome the clear system uncertainty
involved in the merger of the hardware and software, all in a compact
and modular form factor.

The project represented an ergonomic challenge in the basic moving parts
of the robotic medical device representative. What was the best design
for all of the functionality required by the medical device
representative? While robotics has insinuated itself into many
professional and manufacturing situations, telepresence in an operating
theater is completely new territory. How could portability, assembly,
and disassembly be packaged in with a functional robotic representative,
while not impacting the real-time nature and laser accuracy which was
required to be replicated and reliable to one hundred percent, in each
successive application in any new operating theater.

The next block of uncertainty was the complicated networking and cabling
required to connect all of the various devices that would have to be in
synchronization and governance to send and receive data and not confound
the problem of movement for the robotic device. The existing technology
and knowledge base level at the onset of this project was limited to the
functional objective usually only being accomplished using a plurality
of different analog circuit boards, cameras, and servo controllers
within many independent devices, and not within one integrated and
compact footprint and form factor.

### What work did you perform in the tax year to overcome the scientific or technological uncertainties described in line 242?

Laser Pointer

The laser pointer presented unique telepresence challenges. We had to
articulate multiple trays and drawers of surgical components that may or
may not get used. Dozens of device options were experimented with, and
we found we required articulation based on what is happening during the
operation. We had to be able to point at different parts, describe them,
how to assemble and use them, define conditions under which devices get
used, and which ones do not.

Cameras

The reason we have two cameras is so one can see where the laser points
and ensure they're pointing at the correct thing, and the second camera
to look around the operating room and see what's going on, who's talking
and other important live data. The top gimbal used two servo motors and
two gear boxes in the final design where we can manipulate that laser
pointer correctly. All of this was done by experimental development,
systematically attempting a series of unusual servo alignment designs,
experimenting with them, determining how they failed the complex merger
of all our needs, then rebuilding with what we had learned.

Systems Integration

Known systems fail to control remote controllable cameras (a primary
camera and an auxiliary camera) and to control a remote controllable
laser pointer device. We attempted to develop a method and process to
control the remote controllable cameras, and laser pointer device. We
experimented with many use cases that might be beneficial to a surgical
environment, which we found saves time by having a technician to work
one, two, three steps ahead of the operating room users; avoids delays
caused by pan, tilt and zoom of a single camera and single laser, which
do not move quickly, and further this would help operating room staff
identify instruments and devices more quickly. We realized that as some
orthopedic operating room set-ups may be too large to be effectively
covered by a single camera, especially when using a sterile implant room
that is located adjacent or nearby to the operating room, we needed to
design a method for deployment of auxiliary devices which would allow
access to other rooms with implants and other operating tables outside
the field-of-view of a main camera while minimizing the physical
footprint of the apparatus.

We focused next on the user gesture signal from a gesture-sensing device
(which is positioned in the operating room. The gesture-sensing device
needed to be developed in such a manner that we could detect a user
gesture provided by a user positioned proximate to operating room
device. We would then develop a method to process the signal received
and devised a process that algorithmically determined if the user
gesture signal matched a predetermined user gesture stored in memory. We
next devised a method to suspend transmission of an aspect of a
telepresence session, depending on a match made between the user gesture
signal and the predetermined user gesture. Work would continue in the
next fiscal period as obstacles were still not met, and further
advancements needed to be made to the footprint and portability of the
device, based on knowledge gained during experimentation in 2020.

### What scientific or technological advancements did you achieve or attempt to achieve as a result of the work described in line 244? (Maximum 350 words)

We built a system to operate at least six networked devices and some
gear boxes. The gear boxes are uniquely assembled into three different
gimbals. There are two high resolution digital cameras and a laser
pointer. We unified all of these system uncertainties into a working
prototype. We performed experimental development by systematically
iterating through our design challenges to strip away architectural
assumptions that did not pan out in prototyping. We had knowledge — and
the industry had knowledge — of how each of the component types worked
individually, but not together, and there existed no tangential industry
uses that bore sufficient similarity to a medical device representative
telepresence.

There were many uncertainties in the engineering of the prototype. We
needed a number of unique brackets and number of moving parts that were
quite complex that had never been developed together before and we had
to maintain the ideal of easy assembly, easy disassembly, and maintain
portability.

In this fiscal period we developed a two axis gimbal to integrate with
the gear boxes to meet the ability to point a laser accurately as seen
in real time through a remote camera, as part of our robotic and digital
medical device representative. We developed a novel and compact gear box
form factor, and in doing so set new patented standards for robotics in
an operating theater. The axes of both gear boxes intersected with one
another. This provided a new mobility for camera movement specific to
the operating theater. Roborep is creating an affordable, accessible,
telepresence system to provide on-demand, real-time, technical input
during operating room procedures.

The work has produced a patent for ‘Telepresence Management’.
